[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here with the
legend two-time academy award winner
hilary swank
thank you so much for joining me today
thanks for having me we've been talking
uh via instagram uh for a while now
trying to make this happen so i'm really
happy we're able to
you and me both you are such a hardcore
badass as my wife was just here she was
so hyped up to meet you um because truly
we are both so inspired by your work
ethic and what you've accomplished and
just how hard you go to make your dreams
come true and so having you on the show
is something we are beside ourselves
with joy to be doing so
super stoked thank you um and i'd love
to start with that legendary work ethic
if we may
when did you develop that i mean you
were competing quite young um at the the
state level for sure in both swimming
and gymnastics if i have all my facts
right
um so when did you like click into that
competitiveness and really start taking
it seriously
uh
well it's so interesting
um how something becomes something um
i started swimming at the age of three
um it was kind of just a convenient
babysitter putting me into sports you
know while my parents both worked and
worked long hours so then after school
program going swimming or gymnastics or
basketball or whatever sport it was in
the season
really became um
it was it was my
babysitter but then it became my way of
life and my great passion for so many
reasons um
and uh
you know it's to me it's like
being a part of sports is like the air
you breathe or the water you drink it's
i couldn't live without it it informed
who i am in so many ways and i love that
you started the conversation with this
because
i feel like sports gives you
a type of work ethic that you carry into
your life and especially for young girls
because
we're so objectified and trivialized
that you realize when you're working in
team sports what your body is actually
made for and um
and you have to train your body and you
have to work your body hard and you have
to mind over matter and get into that
part later but also as young girls
working together for a common goal and
supporting one another in their
strengths and picking each other up
you learn how to support other women
and so
um there are so many things um you learn
how to persevere um through all types of
adversity through
pain and through what losses you know
i've never seen a loss is
a negative because it's such an
opportunity to grow
um and i know this is a very long-winded
answer to your question
but um
without sports as a young person
um
without
um the ability to learn myself again
physically and mentally i don't i would
definitely be a different person than i
am today
yeah that that i completely understand
when you approach the body to get to the
mind to me that's when like really
interesting things happen i've always
told people there's two ways to get to
the mind the mind to me is ultimately
the game that we're playing you can go
directly to the mind which i would say
works for very very few people another
way to get to the mind is through the
body so whether that's
learning that you can get stronger
learning that you can get faster that
you can improve your skill set it
becomes much easier to believe that
change is possible
which gives you the energy that you need
to push when something gets difficult
it's like oh i've seen this with the
body and now if i can believe that the
mind works in the same way
um then i can tackle a pursuit like
you've done with acting which i i have
to imagine people would rank as one of
the sort of most
impossible to
to get into it just seems so
insurmountable the odds of coming from
you know a trailer park in bellingham
washington to having a star on the
hollywood walk of fame i mean it's like
it's the classic story um what i'd love
to know is when does your mom begin
whispering in your ear this notion that
you can become what you want it's just
going to be really hard is that as soon
as you started swimming um was it later
like when does that become a thing
it was as early as i can remember um
i think my mom
first of all i know the best gift you
can give a child is to tell them they
can do anything they want as long as
they work hard enough it gives you that
gift of believing in yourself
um
and
i
i don't even remember at what age she
told me i it was just kind of a common
mantra
um
and
it was really cant was the bad four
letter word in our house
uh
and i love that and it was also i
remember my gymnastics coach we had a
big sign on our wall um in big block
level uh letters up on the wall that
said
can't means
won't and won't means push-ups
and so kind of
from all
all areas from my home life to
my sport life it was a the common mantra
and i just tried to carry that into my
i do carry it into my life all the time
now and instead of saying i can't
i try and find a way to
persevere um and and a lot of the times
my biggest competitor is my mind it's
our biggest competitor is really
ourselves
and um
i'm i'm competitive because i'm a leo
and i i like a challenge um but really i
think overcoming that obstacle of your
mind is the number one thing
to tackle in in pursuing your dreams and
your goals
one thing i'm very curious i actually
don't know how you're going to answer
this so i've i've heard that you're very
competitive um and not just with
yourself with other people what do you
think about that do you think it's
important or maybe useful to be
competitive with others as well or do
you think no no you should keep it
entirely aimed at yourself
well one thing i'd like to say
is that
i think for a long time people use the
word competitive as a negative
especially when it was um
you know
towards a a female
um it was if men were competitive
it was deemed a good attribute and
characteristic and for women it was kind
of a negative
and i was told my whole life well you're
really competitive and i took it
poorly because clearly it was i think
meant as that until i started realizing
what a great
thing it means that i'm always trying to
improve myself
and
even if that's not what the person meant
i feel like when i look back for
instance
when i was swimming or that one kid in
school or two kids or three kids or ten
kids um that were better at something
than you
it's so important to try and work
towards pushing yourself it gave you
something to work towards and so i was
constantly observing what they were
doing
that made them able to be faster or
um whatever it was that that would that
i was trying to achieve
and that is so important
to um to see it um to respect it and to
work towards it um i always go to that
when i was training for a million dollar
baby i was thinking of that
the runner who finally broke the four
minute mile and
i remember
thinking that after he was able to do
that how many people did it just shortly
after it's because they saw someone do
something that was deemed no longer
impossible and they said i can do it and
so that is super important to be
competitive with other people because
they're the ones that push us out of our
comfort zone that we didn't even know we
were living in
hillary i agree with that so
aggressively and yet it i i have said
things like that in the past and it gets
a pretty controversial response like
people um they don't like the idea of
competing with other people but
like you i feel exactly the same that
i'm not wishing them bad i don't think
less of myself if i can't win i want to
play against the best of the best and
see like how good this can be and fall
in love with the process of like pushing
myself and like just how far can i take
this and to me that exhilaration of
allowing yourself to be competitive to
really try to win
um in an honorable way in in an exciting
way in in in a way that fills arenas
with people that want to see that level
of like human performance
that to me is like the juice of how far
you can push the human animal
exactly and if you think about it from
that aspect it's about respect it's
about respecting the person that is
doing something that you want to achieve
that's beautiful and that's what makes
the world better
because if we all stayed in that comfort
zone and said oh let's not compete with
each other to be better at whatever it
is
then no one would ever grow and no one
would
find vaccines to help save lives or go
to missions to mars or whatever it may
be
and that to me is the most inspiring
about human beings or the people who are
constantly breaking through the status
quo
they blow all of our minds like you said
they fill arenas and i think the
negative naysayers are really probably
just a little bit jealous and they're
not going to like to hear that
but the fact is is they might not have
it in them to want to have that drive
but they want to be there so
to go a little deeper on that story for
anybody that hasn't heard it
for all of recorded human history
everybody thinks that the four minute
mile is not possible that the human body
is just not capable of doing it one guy
is just crazy enough and he keeps
pushing pushing and pushing and believes
that it can be done he does it i think
40 like 44 days after he breaks a record
that it stood for all of recorded human
history another person breaks it and
then by the end of the year three people
in a single race
break the four minute mile because they
realize that it could be done it's like
that zero to one moment is so incredibly
difficult but when you see that somebody
has pulled it off
it gets pretty interesting now the new
show that you're in away on netflix is
i love it so much you have no idea i'm
five episodes in i'm a total sci-fi
junkie i know you're not a huge fan of
sci-fi i am a psychopath for sci-fi and
part of what i love is these exploration
of these zero to one moments of like
what that would really be like
and i'm curious
you've gone from actor to now executive
producer
as you
literally change who you are and how you
show up in the world like how do you
reinvent yourself like that how did you
have the courage to move to la and live
out of your car how did you have the
courage you know to take
um boys don't cry which was i'm sure
like that you got paid 75 dollars a day
or something it's ridiculous like how do
you have this courage to reinvent
yourself constantly um and why do you
keep doing it
um
well
you know
i think that if you look at something
and you think uh
like i didn't know
that this is where i would be like 29
years later that i would be living my
dream and having a conversation about
impact and you know uh
being a type of role model and i think
if you think like that it can be a
little overwhelming especially with a
movie like boys don't cry when you know
that it was the beginning of a
conversation that no one was having at
the time and it started that
conversation that was so important for
so many people
um i probably might have even like froze
under that pressure um but i think if
you're just following your life's path
and your life's purpose
um
you're not thinking
about anything other than just kind of
how do i achieve it how do i
how do i make it happen and when i drove
to california with 75
and a gas card and i was living with my
mom out of the car for a little while to
me it was
exciting it was it didn't feel
courageous it felt like
i'm embarking on the beginning of my
dream
and there was nothing more exciting i
remember like it was yesterday and i
think that if you really are living your
fullest purpose there are definitely
moments where
i
i'm i'm you know kind of quaking in um
in a type of fear of like can i do this
and that's wonderful because i don't
ever want to rest on my laurels i don't
ever want to just sit back and go oh i
did it now i can just kind of smooth
sail
choices that i continue to make are ones
in which keep me up at night that you
know it's like the night before
the first day of school and i can't
sleep on my first night of of
when i'm about to go to set for the
first time and
um and i love that it to me it's a
challenge and sometimes it doesn't work
you know clint eastwood said something
that has always stuck with me which is
you always aim for the bullseye but you
don't always hit it
and that's okay
you know how do you deal with that when
you when you fail to hit the bullseye
what do you do how do you talk yourself
through that
i just say did i do my best did i work
my hardest did all the collaborators
work their hardest and where can we
improve the next time why didn't it work
i think trying to break down and
understand why something doesn't work so
that you don't do the same thing the
next time but it's hard when you're
telling stories
because you're anything you're only as
good as your weakest link and we're a
collaboration and that's part of the
beauty and the magic is in that
collaboration like i remember i did this
movie the reaping
which
um was really about kind of this
biblical
plagues that happened which feels very
kind of timely right now and i feel like
it just didn't come out at the right
time you know it had it come out now
people would be like oh my gosh you know
so so much of it is about time and
what's happening but also sometimes it
just doesn't work i've done movies and i
won't mention them
and remind everybody where it just
doesn't work and that's just okay
one thing that i find
so interesting is
you
you had an overnight success nine years
in the making right so yeah i i totally
get that story of you know you work and
work and work but just nobody's seeing
it but then you finally have that
breakthrough moment and then you've
done so many extraordinary things not
only do you win one academy award you
win two academy awards which is insane i
just i mean that puts you in such a
small pantheon but what's interesting to
me is that you've also launched a
clothing line you've become an executive
producer um you're getting involved in
like the real
nitty-gritty of the storytelling and
that to me is is evolution that i think
is going to keep you relevant and that
you know you're already at a point now
where you can be in front of the camera
you can be behind the camera i want to
read a quote that you said that i think
really sums up um your attitude and the
approach that you have which i i think
speaks to why you've had the kind of
success and evolution you've had this is
straight from your mouth i wrote it down
myself i have this motto make a choice
make it happen and work every day
towards what towards whatever that goal
is step into the sharp edges do
something that scares you don't pull
away and don't overthink
and i just thought man that is how you
really build something that is
constantly changing constantly evolving
that willingness to to lean into the
sharp edges and do the things that scare
you is that is that really something
that you keep at the front of your mind
as you decide what to do next
my deepest fear used to be that i
wouldn't fulfill my
my purpose that i wouldn't
um you know it's not just about
achieving it's just that i wouldn't
fulfill
what i'm here to do and um do you have
like a single sentence of what you're
here to do
um well it's always evolving
and that's why i say make a choice make
it happen
because we are evolutionary beings and
what is right for you at 20 might not be
right for you at 40 or 30 and you have
to constantly ask yourself am i still
living my purpose or was that a purpose
at 20 that someone else had for me um or
what you know
often we also get caught up on what
success is without asking ourselves what
is my definition of success because it
might be different from
what is always thrown at you from the
early age before you even know you're
taking stuff in you're seeing
commercials and billboards and ideas of
what success is because it's a business
so i think really getting in touch with
why am i here and what's my purpose and
i was just lucky that eight years old i
knew that i wanted to be an actor i
didn't know when i came alive and i was
performing in front of my class
that i was that was my calling
eventually i figured it out
um but and thankfully it's stayed true
and i've taken time away to take care of
loved ones and it's only fueled that
fire more i love being a storyteller
there is nothing i
i
i think that could bring me that much
joy um it's so fulfilling it's so
rewarding
but like you just said there's other
parts of me that i'm exploring which is
i want to encourage women to live their
own mission statement to to
walk in the shoes that they know they're
here to do and that's why i created this
clothing line it felt like it was a
natural extension
to that encouragement um you know my
charity that i have hillary that brings
kids who've been given up on and animals
who've been abandoned
seeing these kids come to life when it
when a seed
of hope
has been planted in them again when
they've been kicked to the curb and
and told that they don't matter because
of the circumstances that they're born
into you see them come alive it's
you know that's the thing
to constantly ask ourselves every day am
i making a choice to make it happen my
purpose and so
i don't know if i answered your question
but the point is is that it's constantly
evolving
who we are
and
sometimes you know letting go of the
idea of what it should be
is just as important because we're
missing what's right in front of us
that is something that is bloomed that
might be better than the idea we had it
to be
yeah i think that's really really
powerful
hillary sounds amazing
what is it what's happening there is it
the connection with a dog that just has
unconditional love
is it the adults that are finally
showing them love and care and the dogs
are just sort of accidental like what is
the what's the magic well
i think it's a little bit of both so
what happens is first of all when i was
a kid um growing up at very young age i
learned about classism
and it was really unfortunate because i
didn't realize that my circumstances in
a lower socioeconomic background were
not
you know
i didn't know that it was
bad or looked upon poorly um i just was
living my life and it's so unfortunate
that you learn that at such a young age
but um
one of the things i was
for my birthday and for christmas every
year i want a dog i want a dog because
every time i was around a dog i felt
good about myself i felt like a
a sentient being saw me for who i really
was and i just felt joy
it gave me a reason to wake up in the
morning it gave me a like a purpose that
was outside of me and like
oh
they don't like me because i live in a
trailer park and oh i don't belong there
and where do i belong finally a dog is
where that's where i belonged
and so i thought later in life when my
late dog crew who was this super special
dog
passed away i thought well what do i do
with this pain and i thought oh hillary
our names combined and i'm gonna try and
um bring back that feeling i had for
kids who have been given up on
in foster care and in group homes um and
again they see the dogs though that have
been kicked at the curb like they feel
they have
dogs that are in shelters dogs that are
going to be put down and we pull them
out and we pair them and it is
one-on-one counseling too
um and these kids
we put like the dogs we put them through
they have to take a dog through an
agility course on the first day
and one of the things we asked at the
end of the the day is what do you think
your dog felt
and they'll say well my dog was
overwhelmed my dog didn't trust me
my dog was confused
my dog didn't know why it was there
and then we say oh
what did you feel
and they're like
just like my dog
and so
it connects them back to their emotions
that they've cut off from and they start
having empathy for this other being
outside of them which again though they
go home and then they
it gives them or to their group home or
to their foster home and they it gives
them a reason to wake up the next day it
ris re instills a responsibility and a
meaning in them and
if by far exceeded my expectations of
what it would
be
that is really cool i asked earlier um
but we didn't quite get a quick answer i
know that it changes over time but i'm
curious as of right now knowing that it
could change and evolve what do you see
your purpose as being is it to tell
stories that empower
i got it
hands down
and i'm sorry i didn't answer it before
um the long this is the short of the
long-winded is to
empower the or dog
it's just
i think that anyone living that feels
like they've lost hope
or they don't belong
or they don't know what they're here for
or they're marginalized or they're
oppressed
or they're told they'll never amount to
anything
i want to tell stories that empower them
to say yes
this is why i was born this is my
meaning this is my purpose and you will
not stop me
and i didn't know that when i became an
actor that that was
you know the stories i wanted to tell
but those were the stories i was drawn
to and now we can see through the
trajectory of the choices that i made
that that's the through line
and
it will forever remain i think my most
passionate thing when i see people who
have given up
on this what as far as we know one short
life
it's
leaves me feeling so sad
and so anything that i can do to say
you know if one person watches one of my
films and says
i get it i get it
then i've done my job
i want to go back to something that you
said earlier about
your mind is the thing that ultimately
gets in your own way and it's the
ability to overcome that
talk to me about million dollar baby the
i don't know if people understand five
pounds of muscle is transformative
it would change anybody's physique it
would make you
almost unrecognizable you go from like
skinny to bruce lee with five pounds of
muscle
and
it is gruelingly difficult to put that
kind of muscle on if i gave you six
months to do it it would still be hard
if i have all my math right in roughly
three months you put on 19 pounds of
muscle
the the
inhuman amount of effort that that would
take
how the hell did your mind not scream at
you to stop how'd you pull that off
my mind screamed at me every day to stop
i was um
in my body was in
pain all the time and i was training six
days a week
and
um
the beautiful thing that happens
when you persevere and change the
mindset you just go
and don't put anything on it just
get there
and be present and work really [__]
hard
don't say you can't don't say this is
gonna happen don't um
quantify it and say well if i show up
this better happen like don't do any of
that just show up and put the work in
and then the next thing you know you're
breaking through barriers
that you never thought possible and
you're
you're you're in awe of the not of
yourself but at the fact that anyone can
really do this if you set your mind to
it anyone can do it it's not a secret it
just takes a lot of [__] work
and you have to get out of your own way
because your body will con your mind
will constantly tell you you can't
because it hurts
it hurts to grow even mentally not just
physically it's just painful you're
breaking out of old ideas and thought
patterns and things that are comfortable
the drama in your life becomes your
comfort zone and when you break out of
it whether it's physically or mentally
it's the unknown and the unknown is
scary
yet you just have to say okay
i'm gonna sit here push into the sharp
edges and i'm just gonna sit here
i'm not dying
the floor is still under me
wow my shoulder was hurting but it's
still there and it's okay with a little
ice or whatever it is if you talk
through
all the what-ifs that you put on
yourself what if this oh what if that if
you sit through them all and you
actually go through them you realize
99 of the time they're not gonna happen
you know and you're gonna come out the
other side the person that you stepped
into wanting to become
now i know with um a way that you
discovered i'm sure less than enjoyably
that you actually have some
claustrophobia issues with getting in
the spacesuit and all of that
has your previous mental training did
that prepare you for that were there new
tricks that you had to learn in order to
deal with that like how did you get on
the other side because you spent a lot
of time in that suit
well um
i after after i got over being ashamed
of myself
not for having a phobia but for the
thoughts that i had about other people
who had phobias
i was disappointed in myself i was
always kind of like
whatever it's a spider just turn away
walk away or you know whatever it was
it's heights it's like well don't look
down
you know i didn't have very much empathy
for those things and i consider myself a
really empathetic person so shame on me
once i got over that
and realized oh my god it is a
physical
thing that happens
that you don't have control over
i almost passed out i was sweating i
turned beat red and i didn't want to say
anything because i hadn't even started
filming and i didn't want them to recast
me
but they clearly said something was
wrong when i say i was red i was red as
a tomato and i was dripping sweat and i
i sweat but my face doesn't sweat a lot
so it was very it was all very
uncommon to me and everyone there was
you know probably 12 artisans around me
like latching me in and
doing tweaks on the suit and
they all saw it and they just said you
want to sit down i'm like yeah no i'm
okay
until i was about to pass out um
and so i realized i needed to reach out
to people who knew
how to help you that's the other thing
it's really important when you don't
have the answers to not
try and you know
power on all by yourself if you it's
okay to ask for help and that's one
really important thing that i learned
also early on is that
well it took it was some hard knocks to
get there because i always took
everything on my own shoulders but it's
important so
i reached out to people who
i knew worked with
sports people to help them
um through uh negative thinking
um
um you know essentially just to have
breakthroughs and to not get caught up
in the mind
game
um and i asked them if they could help
me and they gave me ideas of um
really relaxation
which is something we do with acting um
you can't force anything in life and so
it was also a good analogy for life it
was a good analogy for my art to go back
into relaxation
because what is happening is
everything's speeding up
and
and that takes over and you can't get
out of the cycle of the speed up and so
if you start at a really low kind of
heart rate
deep breathing
quiet place and you go into it and you
just try and keep yourself there i just
didn't know how i was gonna act while i
was also trying to concentrate in that
zone
when i was acting all worked up in some
of the episodes where i was doing you
know these flight things and uh where i
was supposed to be worked up i didn't
know how to work the acting into the
relaxation and that was an interesting
lesson but
i also reached out to
acupuncturists and they gave me herbs
and things
you know whether that was a placebo but
i would take these drops of these
homeopathic stuff 20 minutes before and
i was like this is going to help me
so all in it all kind of worked um but i
also had the patience of the filmmakers
and the producers who and my fellow
actors because they would all be in
these spacesuits and we'd be about to
take off and then they'd have this the
chair shaking and you'd be acting like
you're taking off and then i would have
a freak out and i'd have to pull
everything off and they were all patient
and
yeah it was a process and again just
being patient with yourself
and are you at the point now where you
can be in the suit normally or is it
still like we have to do the drops and
the meditation and the calm breathing
and all that
i um tried it um as we got towards the
end without the drops just to see if it
was placebo or
um and
i think what started to happen is i
didn't i didn't take them i got much
better
but um i also and this is another
analogy for life i was able to trust the
people around me i had two people
um at all my the the costume person and
the prop person
and they when they lock in because you
lock gloves on and you lock and you
can't get out of it by yourself but once
i could trust that if i you know had a
safe sign
that they would run in and take it off
i could relax into it and again that's
just such a good analogy for life if you
trust
that
you're doing if you've done the work
if you're living in the right mindset
if you're you know making a choice to
make it happen that the universe is
working in it on your behalf and you
just have to trust and let go and
essentially that's kind of what getting
over this claustrophobia or working
through it
was
i want to talk about your preparation
which is
ultra hardcore
what is it that you do for prep to prep
for a role um and
what do you think it's sort of secret
sauces
um
you're so complimentary thank you
the secret sauce to me is having um
the time to explore
a character like it's a human being
i think everything in life is about the
specificity i think if you look at the
specifics of anything that you're doing
um that's where the beauty lies
um it's never in the surface it's always
in the depth and so
the break the time at least four weeks
to break down a character and to
understand them
um
this is what i
love about acting and
is that
i get this opportunity to see how every
every human being has a similar quality
but then they have this thing that makes
them different we all have our unique
story right we all want to give and
receive love we all want to live our
fullest purpose we all have fears we all
have hopes
but the color of that is that it's not
exactly the same
what those things are i mean the the
through line is the same but who we love
and what our purpose is they're all
different
and so
um
everyone has a unique story so with the
character i always try and find their
unique story what scares them
um so when you're in the middle of a
scene and you're thinking of what the
scene is it's not just the lines it's
the between stuff it's the in-between
stuff it's like
you know when when
anything you can think of in life we all
know what our triggers are we all know
what scares us we all know what our
hopes are
um
and so finding those nuances in a
character is what i love and um and
doing that preparation and i think one
of the key things and fun things for me
is finding my character's shoes
and walking in those shoes because
everybody and just take a look around
everyone watching this and
if you look around everyone walks
differently
not one person walks the same
and finding where a person walks from
um i have always walked like
impactfully and it made it hard to do
zero gravity because i'm an impactful
person like i like high impact sports
and stuff i'm not graceful so being in
zero g and trying to be graceful was
hard but just like i walk kind of
chest forward like heart forward and
some people walk with their head forward
and some people walk with their pelvis
forward and some people kind of walk you
know with their heart back and just look
around it's interesting and i love that
i love observing that and diving into
that and understanding all of that when
you think about moving forward with your
career where are the areas that you want
to go next what are the sharp edges what
are the things that scare you
that you want to move into now
um
well i i really i started my career in
comedy um which is
a great joy of mine i love it and
i'm clearly not seen as that uh
especially after a lot of the choices
i've made my mom always says can you
please live to see the credits because i
always
um
but i
i
you know doing ps i love you albeit you
know not a a total comedy but there was
you know it was considered a kind of
romantic comedy i
i uh
i love it i love exploring that side i'd
also like to do more action i know
people think of me as fit as physical
but i'd like to do like
i don't understand why there's not
mission impossible with a female lead or
there's not like a james jane bond or
something you know where there's not
like
a female
um in these roles i i feel like
women i i heard make up a bigger
population of the viewers and i would
think they would love to see a badass uh
in in an action piece like that
there's definitely space for that as
somebody that thinks a lot about
demographics you've talked a lot about
there's a dearth of um exciting projects
for women um
how do you go about solving that like
what what is the answer are you
collecting talented writers and um
directors like how do you if if you were
given all the money in the world
how would you solve that problem
that's a really good question the thing
about the business is i think very
challenging
is and makes it a kind of a lottery is
that it takes so long for a project to
find its
to be its finished piece so it's
you know a year on the normal side
clint eastwood can get something out in
six months which is rare and fast
yeah um but what is
relevant right now might not be in a
year so you're trying if you're trying
to like play the popular game of oh this
is this is what's cool right now you
might be missing it i think the most
important thing is to
really just tell a story that speaks to
your soul
and then hope that it makes it because
at least you didn't hurt your integrity
and trying to be
hot and cool
um
and a year later having a bomb because
then you have nothing else to hold on to
except you're trying trying to reach
something i don't think like i didn't
become an actor to win an academy award
it wasn't my goal my goal was to be as
to tell stories and to
find characters that um made me feel
less alone in my life that made me feel
more connected to humankind that was my
goal and so if you're just again it goes
back to if you're in touch with what it
is
that lights you on fire at least you're
winning in one way because no one knows
what the outcome's going to be but if
you had fun doing it if you were
challenged doing it if it if it helped
you grow as an artist and as a human
being you've already won
it's great when you can get your
financiers their money back because i
feel that responsibility
but um
you know again it just doesn't always
work and i don't think that you can
always go by statistics and there are
people who
have proven themselves in one movie and
then the next movie that they try and
simulate that it doesn't work so it's
just who knows and that's that's kind of
the
i guess excitement um but also the scare
of this business
you know one thing that i think you've
talked really profoundly on is identity
and you say you know we we always lead
with um what we do and so much of who we
see ourselves as is tied up in what we
do i'm curious to know when you won the
academy award did it
change how you felt about yourself
did it strike you is it something you've
taken on as part of your identity or do
you know
i shouldn't invest in in that part of it
it was a moment it was beautiful um but
i'm not gonna let it define a part of
who i am
i love that question and i i really hope
that um
really especially young people hear this
because the most defining moment for me
is when i took three years off of my
career
because of what you just said
so often we're defined by what we do
and
i realized and as most people when you
say oh tell me about you
i usually first say well i'm an actor
you know or i'm a storyteller or oh
it is what i do
but it's not who i am
and there's so much more to me
than that and when you let one thing be
the leader
i think
you're not as well-rounded
as
you're meant to be in this life
and so i think and also if you put
everything in that one box
which i have i'm an actor i'm a
storyteller and i've now have a 29 year
career
and if it was taken away i would be
devastated um
but when i took time off to care for my
dad who got a lung transplant so there
were people who said are you worried
about not being relevant and you know
what if you can't find your way back in
and it wasn't a question i asked myself
what i ask myself is where am i needed
right now in life and where i was needed
was where i chose to go
and i really think it's important that
we don't look back and have regrets had
i not been there and from my dad and
done the thing that was calling me at
that time
and said oh i can't wait to do another
movie
and it's not because it's
right thing to do it might not have been
right for somebody else but for me it
was right because that is what felt
right in my heart
so
at that time i realized
i'd never gone a year without being
in some type of movie or show or doing
something creative and then walking away
from it i realized that's when i created
my
my clothing line that's when mission
statement was born because i
even though i wasn't able to be creative
in a way that i had been in the past it
didn't keep me from being creative in
the hospital room as i sat by my dad's
bedside i could still think of other
things that i wanted to do in life and
how it could be impactful for me and
other people and i think that's again
goes back to what i was saying
is that we get we can be so myopic and
like this is my goal right here and then
if that's taken away
then you're not seeing this wide thing
of like all these other things that
could be in front of you
and so
i realized you know that's when i was
able to help
um kind of push hillary
in a bigger way and so instead of going
oh we can't be creative i thought okay
what can i do how can i be creative in
this environment that i'm in right now
where i'm needed
and so
it just made me like i said it made me
see that i'm
more than just an actor
no that's incredible i think that's so
important like you said i hope the young
people were listening to that um were
you and your dad already close
we
came
close um kind of in my mid-20s
so yeah um you know
not so close when i was younger um but
we had been building a relationship and
obviously after this came a lot
we're really close and my dad lives with
us so
now we're really close
that's incredible it it's incredible for
a couple reasons one it i think
everybody should have a code that they
live by which is going to help them in
those moments where it's like i know
what i should be doing based on how i
want to feel about myself and i'm by
myself like you said not having regrets
you know and and running the scenarios
and saying okay let's say that i don't
help my dad and he either struggles or
passes away will i say hey but at least
i you know made this movie and this was
my third academy award and i really
think this movie was an important body
of work and i'm so glad it's out there
or would you say hey that role that i
know that i was up for went on to win
somebody else an academy award and
become this important thing but i was at
home with my dad and that really matters
to me
and when you have that kind of clarity
life just gets it gets easier and it
gets more beautiful because
you know what matters to you um which
you've chosen i mean you've decided to
have something matter but once you
decide to have something matter and then
you live in accordance with it i mean
it's literally the motto that you live
by as i say it which i did not intend uh
but putting those two things together of
saying you know
this matters and now i'm gonna go make
it happen um and i think that's really
really extraordinary and you don't seem
to and look i obviously don't know
behind the scenes but it doesn't seem
like you missed a beat in getting back
in
you're back to doing extraordinarily
high quality work uh you're at netflix
for god's sake which these days is like
the you know the tip top of of the
pyramid um
executive producing a story that's
that's really pretty extraordinary what
was how did you
get back in was that just like look you
know i'm going to deliver quality work
i'm i'm 100 back now and ready to go um
what did that journey back look like
um the journey back was um
i think there was a lot of also things
time that i had to reflect on the people
that i had around me and
uh i had you know
so interesting how i think this is also
important especially for young people
but i had um
one person in my life who would say to
me um
you know i would say oh we got to go for
this and i want to go for that and i
kind of feel like i'm in my second act
in in life i'm now
firmly in my 40s and it's my second act
and there's so much that i still want to
achieve and it's so and and grow
especially as an actor
and i would say let's do this and let's
do that and
and i like to um
to really plan um and and and figure out
like how do we go after that because i
don't want to just wait for things to
come to me there's think going to be
things that people don't see me for and
i still i want to go after things and i
and i want to i don't you know um i
guess you call it ahead of the curve
instead of just kind of waiting and um i
had someone in my life who would say uh
oh hillary that's so naive
and i was like wow you sound like my
teacher in school who told me when are
you going to give up your hobby
when i went to california to pursue
acting
like if i had that attitude
i would not be a working actor right now
and so i quickly learned that the people
who have
who think like that that's fine for
their life and they might not want to
you know
work that hard to get to that next level
but i have you have to make those
difficult decisions and say okay well i
don't know i don't think this is the
right partnership anymore and you have
to be able to you know kind of let your
feelings get out of the way and say it's
nothing personal but we're not in line
and if we're not in line this is a part
of your career but this is my life
and so that's another thing you have to
think constantly ask yourself every day
am i in line with the people
that i'm collaborating with to help on
this journey for one another um and that
was just really indicative that was i
think a really good example of that and
and that that downtime gave me it's
really kind of look around
my house and um and say this is
for the next goal
um and where i want to go and this
really isn't and um
there's a season for that you know
there's a season for everything
hillary
this was amazing thank you so much for
taking the time away is out right now on
netflix it is amazing your success
should not surprise anybody your
diligence perseverance work ethic
skill
preparation man it is it is all on point
and it is such a joy to watch somebody
who takes their craft seriously
pushes themselves to be the best uh and
delivers just consistency
time and time again i thank you for
showing up and doing the work uh as a
fellow storyteller i i i see you in like
an avatar way i see you homie uh and i
am super impressed um and and think that
you are such a worthy role model and i
don't know if that's something you um or
are you know welcome as a part of the
life that you lead or not but certainly
you are and i think it's extraordinary
um other than watching away how else can
people connect with you
um and just drink deeply of your world
um first of all thank you so much coming
from you it means a lot you know i've
been a great admirer of yours for a long
time i repost
your instagram uh posts that are just
are such an inspiration and a reminder
to persevere i don't know i i like to i
can with my followers um
my followers are just so deep and uh
and supportive which i'm so grateful for
and really the ones that keep your dream
going because they're the ones that are
tuning into your projects um so that's a
way to kind of reach out um and so and
it had just the very beginning of that
cut out so that's instagram is that the
best place
yeah instagram that's really i don't it
was hard to kind of get up on that
because i'm not
a very computer oriented person i don't
really understand that world but i like
the idea of telling a story through
photos as they say a photo tells a
thousand words so um i was into that
nice well anybody that likes dogs or
workouts will find themselves right at
home uh on your instagram feed so i
highly recommend it guys no bs i'm gonna
earn my reputation over time as to what
projects i recommend i'm telling you
away is fantastic i love it i'm a sci-fi
junkie it's just a great story character
driven is fantastic i highly encourage
it on netflix check it out and if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
i think there's a part of god in each
one of us and when i say there's a
moment of grace
i think it's when we really listen to us
each other like you and i are doing
right now
that's what i love about this show about
you it's not a show
this is a connection that you make with
people